Welcome, everybody, to the Data Science Hangout. For anyone joining for the first time, this
is an open space for the whole data science community, really to connect and chat about
data science leadership, what's going on in the world of data science, and all the questions
that you're facing. So we want this to be a space where everybody can participate and
we can hear from everyone. So there's multiple ways to ask questions. All the questions are
audience-led, so you could jump in live, put questions in the chat, or we also have a Slido
link that Tyler will share in the chat in just a moment. But with Slido, you can ask
questions anonymously, too. And just a quick note that it will be recorded and shared up
to YouTube for anybody who missed it as well. But I also just want to say thank you so
much to everyone here for building the Data Science Hangout with us this year. I can't
believe that this is the last one for 2021. It's somehow five months have flown by so
quickly. But I'm so excited to be joined by my co-host for today, Ryan Garnett. Ryan's
a Manager of Data Management Insights and Analytics at Greenshield Canada. And Ryan, I'd
love to just kind of start things off by having you introduce yourself and share a bit about
your team and the work you do.
Totally. Yeah, thank you. Well, first, let me say thank you for the opportunity. You know, I
secretly have been following you along online, like many other people, I'm sure, that follow
along with a lot of the great stuff that you're doing. And shout out to everyone here, like our
studio and our community itself is just fantastic. And I'm privileged to be part of that. A little
bit about me. I'm a bit of a weirdo. I'm not your stereotypical data sciencey type of person. I
actually come from a recreation background. So when I was a kid, I wanted to be Yogi the Bear. I
wanted to work in a national park and do all that kind of stuff. So I went to school for outdoor
recreation, parks and tourism, and geography. That was kind of my thing. And Northwestern Ontario,
shout out to Lakehead University, above Duluth for you Americans. So real, real north, even above
Minneapolis. So that's where I really got introduced to kind of data and analytics and stuff like
that. But from the geographic standpoint, using GIS for those of you who are facial people. So that
kind of led me down my path. And then I did remote sensing, which is using satellite imagery. And I
jumped into the world of data and analytics that way, not your data science 2010, 2012, kind of
like famously quoted position. And if I may, I think we were doing data science really early in the
geospatial world, you know, big, bigger, not big, but big data, like satellite imagery and analysis.
And we're doing like a lot of people kind of things there. So that really led me into it. And then as
I went through grad school and stuff like that, I wanted to transition out of being just a geo type
of person. And I wanted to get more into analytics and, and building it that way and going that
approach. And that happened when I was at the City of Toronto. I started the data science kind of team
and practice, City of Toronto, it was still early days, 2015, 2016. And that's where I was like,
okay, I got to do this myself. Like I need to start taking on those kinds of personas and
characteristics and with the open data team. And that's when I started my art journey in 2018.
That's when I started to program and script and what's a function like all those pieces. So I'm
totally not your stereotypical person. I don't come from that computer science, statistics,
background, commerce, or sorry, commerce, econ kind of piece. But I think as we start seeing
data science evolve from that famous quote is the sexiest job of the 21st century, you know,
in that area, we're starting to see that data science is migrating a little bit from a tech
discipline that comes out of engineering, computer science, like statistics, into an objective
approach to solve problems. And how do you solve problems, we need that domain knowledge. And
that's where we're starting to see that real big shift in companies like our studio, because I'm
always going to do a plug, because I just think you guys are awesome. I really helped democratizing
that so that people can jump in at different levels, right? You don't have to have a PhD in
machine learning or data science from Stanford University to start solving these problems
objectively through a code based approach and using best practices or standardizations of
things like it really is being put in the hands of people. And that really excites me. So, Rachel,
as we spoke before, I can talk a lot. So I'm going to pause.
No, that's awesome. Thank you for the intro. In talking with you a few weeks ago, too, I was so
impressed by the like process your team has gone through to start to build up the analytics
environment. And I think as we wait for a few questions to come in from everyone, that might be
great to touch upon.
Sure. Yeah, thank you for putting me back on track. I'll appreciate you to be my North Star. So I
joined Greenshield. And for those of you who may or may not know, Greenshield is a health care
benefit provider in Canada, and we're actually a not for profit. So we're a social entrepreneur,
like social kind of company, and we want to improve the health and life of Canadians. And we
do a lot of social impact. And that really drew me to the organization. And it was on Geo. So I
was like, great, like my whole transformation. So I came in and, and we were, we were a fresh
upstart kind of team. So I joined in February, they had started their team in 2018, kind of
timeframe. And I was telling you before, there's kind of two approaches that we generally see
teams get built. These are you build like a strong engineering, you harden up your
infrastructure, and you build it out that that type of approach, like really hardcore. Sometimes
it's a bit of a theoretical look, if you're taking a bunch of graduate students or PhD students to
build up your team, or your how we approached it was, we want to show the value of analytics in an
organization that has stereotypically not been data and digitally driven, like how we grew up as an
organization in the healthcare providing space. That was in our number one forte. So how do we
show the value to senior executives, board members, because we're not for profit. So the
approach that was taken, and I can't take any credit for it. That was the previous team, like how they
built a team was, let's have some domain experts that are super interested. And let's have them
play. I mean, that in a positive way, play with data and start showing because they know the
domain, they know things are really good with customers and in our, in our other lines of
business, to be able to show how data can provide value. And that was great. So a lot of things were
focused on POC and really quick and like that iterative kind of approach with let's show stuff
quickly. And then they caught lightning in a bottle. Like they absolutely caught it. It was
like, yes, we have it. Now what do we do with it? It's that common piece. Like now that I have
lightning, like what do I do with this bottle of lightning? And, and for those of you may be like,
what is he talking about? Like, Alexander Graham? No, no, no. I mean, now that you have interest,
and you have your leadership, really, like, there's something here. How do you turn that into
production? How do you scale it? How do you replicate something that feels not replicatable?
And that's that whole startup and POC kind of environment. So what we what we did when I joined
is like, well, let's take that approach and let's build on it. But let's build the foundation. And
let's kind of put some of those pieces in there. And in foundation, for from a production
standpoint has quite a few components. And one of the things that I really want to harden up and
instill in because we're we are an organization, a company is like a product line approach. Let's
have some products, products can be repeatable. So let's build that kind of culture in there. Let's
make people's lives easy as possible. And let's always provide a space for exploration, where
people can try and where they can play and where, you know, we hear the buzzword, he kind of fail
fast, like, well, let's explore quick. And then that's kind of fail fast without using the F word
that people are so terrified of, like, no, no, let's explore. Let's do it quick and see if there's
anywhere to go. As we got in, again, I'm going to plug, we were not a code first kind of
organization. That's just not how we were. And that's, that's how, like, the approach that was
set up as a domain. They were really interested in going there. And we had a couple people who had
dabbled in in our and we're doing some things. And then we have we have to start Albert, a
software developer turned data science. So go us turning people over. And he's our superstar. And
he's our big time data scientist. So we decided that we would like to have a stack. And we chose
our studio for a couple reasons. One, there's more than one person myself that could use it. So
that was always a positive. People were open to it. I think our studio and our as approach with
using tidy as as that kind of grouping of packages, the tidyverse allows for really easy uptake, and
swinging people up into like getting them moving forward. And then the platforms, I swear, I'm not
doing this from a marketing sales, but the platform really allowed us to like build. So as we were,
like many organizations, not data first, like that's not how we started, we didn't start in the
internet age, we didn't start in the data science age, working with it, we don't have like, here's
your amazing 64 gig laptops, we're all working with like our standard laptops, and it kind of
minimize some of the things that we're able to do. So that's where, where I reflect back and like to
your question, how do we get going, making things easier. So we build like an infrastructure where
people can log in and do things and share code differently and change that whole, that whole
working approach that you can explore and collaborate, and literally build in time to
educate. Right. So we have every couple weeks we do called data ops, fun buzzwords, you can say it
right, like we're doing that and like introducing people on how to do things, whether that's like
code based stuff in Git, or building API's and build functions and introducing them to our connect
and work, workbench and things like that. So we're really trying to build that piece, always with the
goal of building a product that serves our use cases. I'm sorry, I went way too long.
No, that's really helpful. And I see Bruno just asked a great question around, like understanding
the challenges that you went through, too. And Bruno, I'd love to have you jump in and ask that
too.
I sure can.
And I really just wanted to ask you about your holiday outfit.
Give us the shake, ring the bells.
So how difficult was it to transition to code based data science? So it's, it's something in the life
of an organization. You have to get stakeholder to like, believe in what you're pushing. So what was the
most challenging part of that? And what kept you motivated? So you said you started, I think, 2018.
So our team started in 2018. I started in February 2021.
Okay.
Yep. So so if I get your question, just to paraphrase, how, what were the challenges? And how did we
overcome that transition into a code base? And how do we stay motivated within that piece?
Yeah.
Yeah. So to just to give a like a context of where we started, Tableau and Alteryx were our big kind of like
platforms or tool sets that we use. And as we know, for from some of us, those aren't really code, code first
approaches, and it's like the scrappy startup getting stuff done kind of approach.
Um, how did I do it?
I typically try to break things down into five questions. And I want to own two. That's all I just want to share
stuff. And the five questions in the world are who, what, where, why, when and how. And I want to own the how and
the who. Everyone else can have anything else. They can have the what they can have the the why I like to
collaborate when with people but I want to know how I want to control how we do things and who gets to do stuff
because I think that's really how you can kind of drive stuff forward. So that was really a good kind of transition
and in the thought pattern of getting it in. So the goal was never like you are now code. Everyone throw your
tools away. Everything you do has to jump in there and you better start line by line. Pick off the books off your
shelf. Like that wasn't the approach that really wasn't it at all. And from previous experience, doing similar
kinds of approaches. I realized to get people on board and really eager and willing. I have to take on a lot of those
costs. And I don't mean financially like the cost of building it. So creating really easy to use, use cases,
documentations, putting on training, pointing people in the direction of amazing resources, which our community has so
much for. So thank you. You've really made my my life and journey so much easier. So that was a really helpful piece.
Being open and transparent and vulnerable myself, I think was really less challenging for people because it's not like,
oh my gosh, this person is the world leader in that. How can we ever aspire? That's what it's supposed to look like. But no, I
still Google how to do dplyr syntax every day. Like I still do. ggplot is amazing, but I use a SWS to get the code to
import it. Like, like, let's be honest, like you don't have to get to the very beginning, like the very end, like that
the neural piece, and just getting people to go into it, like write it down, and use it for yourself just to document your
thoughts, and getting them to transition. And like, I do not want you to write efficient code. I don't if you're trying to
write efficient code today, I'm sorry, you're, you're wasting your time. Get the proof concept out, get those kind of
thought patterns and move them along, and really define where certain activities kind of stop. So for people who are like
really aligned to business, and they're rarely like domain experts, I'm not interested in those people having to feel that
they have to optimize code to be the most efficient to run any platform. What I want them to know is to solve those problems.
And then we'll lift and hand that off to another group of people who are really interested in optimization. They're really
efficient at that, so that people really understand what their journey can be. And that if they become interested, there is
other opportunities elsewhere. So really kind of showing a path of the forest through the trees was that approach. From a how
did we get it in? I just made a business case. And I know, oh, you just make a business case. Yeah, well, I chose to talk
about those laptops for a reason. So if you add up all the costs of getting a team $4,000 laptops, you have 15 people,
you're talking about a really big machine. Like that's a lot of money, we're talking about $50,000, you can get and we did get a
really big server for half that cost. We have like dual processor, 16 cores, terabyte of RAM, eight or 10 terabytes of hard drive
space just to explore and do exploration on. That was financially cheaper than saying, hey, that eight gig laptop that you have
that everyone has can't store memory. So you should really get them a 64. And that person actually needs 124. So I would like
$60,000 in laptops, like it just that was more of a challenge. So we went a different approach and identified and really did a
data driven approach. Like what data sets do people generally use? How big are they? What are the types of questions that people are
currently doing? What people want to do? And what can or can we not ask? And some of our like, we don't have the world's largest
data, but we consistently work on 50 gig files, and we're working on multiple of them. So we can't even put them in memory to do a
summary. So you can start seeing how when you break the problems down into like little kinds of chunks, we can build that case to
transition over. And in the last piece, because I know I always talk too much, is really listening to people like what can't you do? And I
think going into that approach, you know, I like to be the Hulk, I'm always angry. And I want to control that anger and use it for good. Is
what what is it that you can't do? Because most people want to do their job, and they want to provide value, and they want to be really
awesome. So that's holding them back from making that leap in that step. So it's like, Oh, those are your issues. Let me solve those with
you. And then you just kind of break it forward. And then lightning in the bottle is now in another bottle. So I'll pause if you have any
other comments, follow ups, or if anyone wants to build.
Frank, I see you're unmuted. I didn't know if you wanted to jump in. I see Bruno giving a thumbs up.
Not yet. I unmuted the whole time, Rachel.
Okay, sorry.
Frank, I love your beard.
Hey, Ryan. My name is Javier. Just a quick question for you. I find myself. So there's, you know, Hadley has this principle of three, where it's
like, if you find yourself copying and pasting a function or something three times, like, why not spend the time to optimize the code such that it
could be three or 300? You know, iterations of the thing you're trying to do?
Yeah, I say two in our company.
Okay. Yeah. So I find myself getting into these traps where like, it takes me more time than I had planned, because I'm trying to work out a
function that could then be used for, you know, like future purposes, as opposed to copying something like 10 times, like that would be a lot faster, right?
And just changing the inputs, but setting it up nicely so that I could use it. I don't know. Do you have any feedback on that? Because I, I do lose track on like,
you know, am I spending too much time on this, you know, per iteration or whatever it is, you know, trying to like, finesse this function?
100%. And like, you're so on point with the realities of a team. And then when you're upscaling, and you're moving, and you're evolving into like that kind of piece, and, and we don't
talk about that so much as a community. And I'm so glad that you brought it up, because I experienced that myself. So I, I'm going to literally answer your question, I'm just
going to preface it in there, given a little bit of what's going on. That was me, like in 2018. Like, I had, I'd worked in like software companies. So I know what's
possible, I helped design them, I helped build them and put that together. I didn't know how to read in a dang file, alone, doing anything else. So we have this, this illusion and image of
what code base should be. And that's a really big step. And typically, we educate people to go linearly, right? Like start here and here. And now you're perfect. And now
you're awesome. With the assumption that everyone can learn that way. And in your space, and in my space, we're, we're adults, right? We were adult learners. And that's not how we
learn. So going through that, and like working with people in the like, previous places, I put people to school at 60 years old, and got them starting to code, like learning and
teaching that kind of stuff. So you see that, and they're always wanting to get to that part. What I've, what I've recently done is kind of break stuff out into like two kind of areas. One was taking something that I heard at a previous job, the TRL, the technology readiness
level. I'm only saying that because what it allowed me to do is take that and break it down into little tiny segments of chunks. So the TRL, the technology readiness level is, was built by NASA, I believe, to kind of say how
mature is a software product, so that you know, like how long now you can commercialize it, like from working with the government. It was really not awesome for data science and data analytics. So it was missing a whole bunch of pieces. So I kind of like, how does that work for us? Because we were building a startup, we were building software and working with the government, and they use that kind of piece. And it really helped me understand your question. Right? It's like, okay, you start at one and you go to nine. And then there's a bunch of stuff in between. Where at what point would you think that something is
like, a product, a software product that's working, you know, it's all functional based, it's calling, there's no hard code kind of stuff. Well, if you think of that as like, seven, eight, nine, like really far down the line, would we assume that it would start at one? Would you start building that function at one?
That's a good point. Yeah, that's a really good way to look at it. Right.
I need to stop doing that, doing that. But then also for the team, I want people to get as close to 100, but never over 80. Because diminishing returns happens in that 80 to 100. And I'm just using loose numbers, right? And that 80 to 100.
Okay. So what value does someone early on in their stages of their career have spending multiple extra time to efficiently do something? Then solving new problems. So let's take two roles. So when there's a domain expert, and you pick your domain, like you know so much, but your code, optimization, programming, like that thing is more lower than the video game level, right?
You're more in that junior, you're not the expert. And then you have the opposite. You have someone who's like, I can code anything, right? You give me two sticks, and I'll put it together. Couldn't tell you anything about that business. Where do you want to put them? So you want that person to solve the problem and hand it off. And that's how we've organized our team. We've organized our team to be data science, and then data engineering. And for that reason, it's like, we're going to work together into that like, five, six, seven overlap.
So that people are solving problems and handing them off. But there's that transitionary piece over there for a couple reasons. So that the people who take code don't mess up, but also to train back. Hey, we're going to do a code review course. What are you doing here? Oh, you're doing that. Can I show you how you could do that more optimally next time?
start building our own packages and code bases for our custom pieces, so that it's like you, I want to use this. So I can just put in a couple variables, and I'll do whatever it is I want. It's not coded to a data set or to a value or a thing like super efficiently optimal. But by going through the problems and understanding how often things come up, you really start understanding what you should build. So you're building a bit of a priority matrix or priority process of what you should build.
And either you tackle it as your own side project. Man, I'm going to figure this out. I'm going to separate some time to kind of do it. But it's not going to hinder me from progressing into like my, my job, my project, my like solving the problem. And then when I get to a point, I'm going to work with my my colleagues over here who were like, they're wizards. And they got the magic wand and they can bippity boppity boo and just slam. Oh, it's finished, right.
And then because it's a shared code base environment, we can look at it. And then we put it into like a knowledge sharing documentation in our get like we're using DevOps just because we're like we're a Microsoft shop. So it's a lot of those learnings, like really investing in data literacy, probably the unsung least sexiest part of this whole domain is like really putting it there so that we can get people further and further and further up that ladder.
And they can make that choice which that they want to jump ladders. And, you know, we have a person, I won't say his name, because it's not on here. And I hadn't asked, but this person started at zero.
They're really good at SQL. It's like, yeah, I can, I can pull some stuff out, introduce this person to R in a month, doing a bunch of stuff, giving a few pointers. Now he's publishing APS. Right, like, you can see that going through is like, don't try to write a function, I'm going to get mad. If you try to write a function first, let's walk through and see if it gives you the answer. And then let's start reverse engineering it and like optimizing it.
And then tell me, let's put it in our board, what utilities we should be building to be making that happen. So you're not hard coding anymore. And then that's where that learning is starting to happen and going. But really importantly, giving that space and the opportunity to do it. I don't know if I went too far on a tangent there for you. If you want to like streamline me into something that we know that this is all awesome. I took a few notes here. So thank you.
No problem.
Thank you, Ryan. I see Jake that you raised your hand as well for a question. Would you want to jump in?
Can you hear us?
Sorry about that. Yeah.
I had a little bit because you all started to talk about code review, which is what I was thinking about. I work at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. And we really encourage code review early and often. And I think that really just helps build the muscle memory so that we efficient practices
Just become something that folks do more off. Like, we don't want like it to get too far ahead and then have to refactor a whole bunch of code, because what happens is folks, folks are like too far along and then get too much feedback. And they're like, that's great. I don't have time for it because like they're like ready to move on with the next step. So instead we start we suggest like start early and then like be pairing with the code reviewer kind of through the whole process.
And I think that's really helped both improve the proficiency on the team, but also reduce like this technical debt that kind of grows if it goes too long. So I just want to put that out there for sure.
If I can add something to that, some other pieces that we find helpful is like, if you're using like an issue board or any like a sprint session like Kanban, we also ask people to identify who they want to review so that you're paired up early on when things happen.
And we've built a style guide so people know what it looks like. So, okay, I'm about to start doing stuff. This is kind of our standard how we look at things.
And then we put in effort to create a notebook markdown template so that forces people to think through the problems and like put it in together so that they have it.
And then it's the starting of a documentation for that code review and then they submit it up. And then so it's like, okay, that that code block. Great. That's, that's actually your function. Like you were doing some exploratory, you're doing some stuff. Now I know the libraries that you want. We can see all those pieces.
And and I agree with you like code review from day one and often and then it starts to just build that muscle memory where people don't need it need to refer back to it. And I've said you don't do it, but they don't need to refer back to it to the same degree.
Like you're spot on.
And Ryan, I see there's also an anonymous question that came in to about this topic. And it was so without functional programming, how do you manage the production code base as they grow?
Get back to like from an object oriented, if that's the way that the people if the people mean that's not necessarily like what we're doing, that would be more in our it kind of space where they're building hardcore applications. Our data products for us are more functionally based because our products align with reports. So like building automation on reports, dashboards, API's and models.
So functional really works in there from an object oriented space. We're not really doing that. And I don't think that there is much of an intention to go that direction. And in our I.T. department actually owns that owns that kind of like application building. So I wish I could answer, but I would be not doing any justice.
I appreciate that, though. And Zach, I see you also had a great question around domain knowledge versus coding knowledge. And I'd love to have you jump in and add that context there.
Yeah, sure. So I was just wondering, because you missed going back a couple of minutes now. You talked about like you have, as you called them, the coding wizards that can do anything. But of course, they then you also have the domain knowledge. Of course, like you're going to have different people join at different points. You're going to have people that I see. It sounds like you did. You had the domain knowledge and you went into the coding side, but you also have them, the people that are coding side and going, actually, I'm not going to do that.
I'd like to do something to you. I believe it's health care. I'd like to go into health care as my domain focus. But I already know lots of code. I was wondering, first of all, just a general question. And what do you think is easier to start with? Do you think it's easier to teach some domain knowledge or to teach them the coding?
And then the second part of the question was, if someone's a coding expert, do you make sure that like they're having, I don't know how often you have meetings with the teams, but do you make sure like they're working almost 100% of the time with a domain knowledge expert to ensure that all the data is in the right direction?
You've got some really deep questions there and I love it. So I'm going to tackle your first piece and then I'm going to tackle your second one. From the first piece, I'm going to do the classic, it depends. It totally depends because the type of person, right? So I think we in our, if I can call us sphere, data science sphere, like in our sector, either people pushed it on us or we do it outside.
We think unicorns exist and everyone's looking for a data science unicorn. And I love them. I've met two in my life, but I actually don't think they exist. I think unicorns are just on my kids' TV shows and some of his stuffed animals upstairs.
So why I say that, and I like to try to be a little bit funny, whether or not I am, that's different, is a unicorn really is someone who has got all that domain knowledge and all that technical stuff thrown together. And that technical stuff can be multiple technical pieces, right? And then you have communications if you choose to put it in there or not.
So it kind of depends. So why I'm saying that is through some experience, we in previous roles at the city of Toronto, like in our open data team, we were trying to hire unicorns. Who doesn't want a unicorn factory? Like it should just work. But if you look at sports, most of the amazing teams don't have all the best players. They just don't. It takes like a whole kind of well rounded kind of look at it.
So we were striking out on finding some people and it was because we were looking for a unicorn to do a role that didn't require it. So there are different personality types. There are people who are like, I'm not interested. I'm not interested in any of that. So why would we like knock them out?
So it depends. If you are a certain type of personality that is either one side or the other, that's really if we can just say like A or B, really A, business, I guess we should say that B because it starts with business, really B, like a business person and A, more technical. I don't think you can really switch it. It'll be a bit of a tough haul. And even if you force it on, maybe they're not going to be interested and they might now in the great migration, they would be a candidate to leave.
From a technical standpoint, how can you do it? I think it depends on your tech stack and the type of person. So I started to try to learn code 2003 when I went to college and it was VB and it just didn't hit me. It just didn't work. And then I tried to do Python and then I tried to do C. It just didn't work with the style.
So I think it really depends on the technical piece that it is and how you learn. So that's why I say it depends. SQL is what got me into being able to do things through a code-based piece and, believe it or not, MS-DOS and doing bash scripts, just like line by line, kind of do stuff.
It got me into that thought pattern. And then with coming into R and the approach of the tidy, it was like, oh, you're thinking of it from a data perspective. It wasn't an easy transition for me. So it depends on what that tech direction, that coding direction is. It's going to be easier or not easier for certain styles of people.
But business is the same thing. If you're not interested in that business, in that domain, I don't think you'll ever teach anybody it. If you're not it. I think how you need to do it is make it interesting analogies to people. That's how the approach is that I've done things.
And then I roll back to some stuff that people have told me over the years, like, explain it like you're talking to your grandmother. My grandmother is 88, and she has no idea what any of this is. I was doing GIS, and my mom and my sister and my grandmother for 100 years said, oh, she's doing GPS stuff. They don't get it. So you need to break it in.
I think with certain languages from a tech coding perspective, it's probably a bit easier to teach elements and levels of that than it is over domain knowledge, because domain knowledge is experience and exposure. And that's time based. So that would be my long winded answer to the first piece. And if you can help me the second one, what was that was?
It was about you have those coding experts, and do you enforce them to work with domain experts more to ensure that fact that the data they're looking for is how it's meant to go rather than go on a tangent as lots of data people or I know got a tangent if I'm not making sure someone's got put me on focus.
Yeah, again, it depends. I would say I don't like to force anything on anyone and holding having people hold hands together can be counterproductive at certain points. So for me, having kind of sprints and team sessions is really good.
Coder doesn't need to be at a design session. They don't need to be there when they're talking to the business and trying to figure out what it is, what's the story. But in that build, I think it's really good. And this is where we're seeing in data science, almost a new position, the translator, the universal translator between thing is becoming extremely important.
But I don't think that they work in isolation. I really do not think that they work in isolation. I think you understand if that supreme coder wizard that they have an interest in learning the business, then yeah, have them come in. So we hired a person this year, and he's interested in doing that.
But let's do baby steps. Let's get that person like understanding our business and how we're doing approaches and then bring them in with good clients with good projects so that it's not like, oh, my gosh, meeting by paralysis. So I don't think it's an absolute requirement, but I think it is good to have cross pollination because different thought patterns.
This diversity, there's diversity of thought, and I think that's a really good approach. And from a business talking to the business, having that approach like I what you're trying to do, we can automate that or we can make it efficient. And having someone who's literally going to do it brings street cred to the whole project and the purpose. Like if you could get that to me, I can shave three weeks off of this project.
So I think there are some business benefits, those domain benefits of having a coder wizard there. But not all the time. I don't think it has to be like a Velcro buddy buddy kind of sitting there together if that helps out.
You know, it's very good. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you, Ryan and Isabella. I see you had a question earlier as well. And I'd love to pass the mic over to you.
Thanks so much. My question is also about collaboration, specifically around code review. So, often, like, especially if somebody is very good at code review, like, they get tagged for each and every time and it stops being kind of the team activity.
And it's like, oh, that's a code review person. And so I'm just wondering, like, how do you prioritize, you know, making sure? Well, first of all, do you prioritize making sure that doesn't happen and recognizing that kind of like additional work that folks are doing when they're doing code review and things like that?
Yeah, that's a really hard thing, isn't it? Like, we we tend to think that superstars should be available for everything. And I'm going to approach it maybe a little different than like than you phrased it.
Like a superstar, that coding wizard, they're going to be able to review everything. But their time has a different value prop. I'm not saying their individual hour to hour is more valuable, but their output potential in that hour can be so much higher than others.
So how do you use it efficiently? I think it depends on where you are in your organization. And I don't mean positionally. I mean, are you early days? You have three people? Or are you a large team that has a few other things? So if you're early days and you're just starting all people on deck, like, unfortunately, you've got to use the people as you have.
And if that superstar, that wizard has a great personality, the learning opportunity is extremely valuable. So early on days, I think it's hard to prioritize. But as you start getting into pieces, this is where I start leaning back. I'm sorry, I'm not a harper of it, but that TRL, how far along is your product?
Like, where is it? Are you starting to get into like beta release? Are you starting to get into like, commercialization? Are you putting it into operations? Yeah, you probably want to have a really good set of eyes there. Or is it the first time that you've built something of that nature? Like, this is your first machine learning model. Like, yeah, you probably want to have it there. So you don't waste a bunch of time to get it there.
So I think there is a little bit of that difference. So as always, classically, it depends. But if I were to summarize, it depends on like, if you have a small team, I don't know if you can really prioritize it too easily. Because I've yet to find an organization like, how many code reviewers do you want on your team? Like, you don't hire just for that, right? There's multiple hats.
So when it's small, we all have to wear a little bit of hats. I think what we do is we prioritize capabilities and like importance. So, you know, if I go back to my early days, when I was learning, like, how do I bring in more than one CSV at the same time? Right? Like, how do I do that? How do I like, get that from like a folder?
Probably shouldn't go talk to the lead data scientist to figure that out. Is there somebody else in there that's done at one time, right? Like those kinds of things. So I think it really depends on the level of code in that piece.
That's kind of where I would look at it. And try in your own kind of thought pattern to break out the development cycle into like, kind of groups, and maybe not have people jump more than a few groups at a time. Right? So if you have four levels of group is like, first time thoughts, like, okay, it's in the POC, MVP, and product, your lead person probably doesn't need to code review the design.
Or maybe they just kind of review the concept. But like, if that helps, there's no perfect silver bullet, like to do this, unfortunately. But I would say that some people's capability, productivity has more value than others. So you want to use those times accordingly. And, you know, if it's not for production, my mindset goes like, I'm sorry, it's lower down in the priority chain.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you, Isabella. And it was just kind of making me think also, like, we have this Slack channel internal at our studio where you could ask questions about R. And I wonder, like, that's helpful for people too, because you don't have to go, like, ask that question over and over again, or, like, people could see the answers.
Yeah, I think that's really helpful. Like, our team isn't so much like an IME kind of team, that's just not who we are. But my previous place I was at, we were absolutely all over Slack. And there was a lot of that. It's like, hey, this isn't working. Someone just take a peek at it. That's great. I think one of the things I'm sorry, I'm going to do a plug here, like, it's not too much of a slight. We as a society sector, we kind of change the way that we respond in forums.
And how we respond to questions, right? Like, if you are a wizard, you're rare. Like, you're like, you are special. Not everyone's there. So like being able to write things out. So that makes more of that, like iterative kind of step by step process of how you're coding is really going to help people in the long run. And you as a wizard to not waste as much time like answering these types of questions, right?
So if someone's saying, like, how do I do a group by, don't put a whole bunch of other nonsense in there that's not answering their specific question, because on a learning curve, we're trying to solve a single problem that's bugging me today, not, and this goes back into like some of the previous questions, like, how do I not build something that's a piece. So I think we can do a better job documenting answers and responses so that they're more usable and iterative to build, right?
So if someone asks, like, an answer for one plus one, don't teach them calculus.
Sorry, Jake, I'm going to just hop in real quick. It's more of a comment and adding on to what Rachel and Brian, your response. Isn't this really about getting people or teaching people to ask better questions and be more thoughtful in what they ask of the world?
Absolutely. I think there's a mix. So there is a little bit of a mix in that because there is elitist syndrome, right? Like there is a piece like I had to struggle. And I started my PhD. And there were so many things like, hey, that's that's the struggle of the PhD. I had to do like, okay, yeah, well, then that mentality leads to do a lot of things in the world that we don't do anymore. But yeah, people need to take some time to check.
You're not the only person to ever ask this question. I'm sorry, there are very few questions in the world that have never been thought of. Right. So to your point, yeah, we have to ask better questions. I think reproducibility and this is like the hot buzzword right in our industry.
Being able to put that out so that people can explore into it is really important, but also breaking things down into the appropriate response, right? Not to like flex off and use if we use forms as an example, as a social media post to show how awesome you are at something.
Yeah, it's not the place. It's like a library, you wouldn't write in the back of the library on the card. I read this book in six hours. Well, I read it in three and a half. Like, I don't care. I'm reading the book. It's gonna take me six months because I have other things going on in my life. I don't like that. So when those response rates like, I don't, I think we can do a better job to get everyone up. We want everyone there.
That's what we want as a community. We want everyone there solving problems, helping and making the world a better place. And if the cost of the ticket to the party is too much, we're going to exclude people. But yeah, people have to ask better questions.
Jake, I saw you had something to add to this as well about your own team's process.
Yeah, I think it's a great question. Like, how do you not overwhelm?
So, I always think a second pair of eyes is good, even if the code is really complicated. Like, it kind of, I don't know.
I think that a second pair of eyes is always good, even if it's a newer person. A newer person, maybe just reasoning for our onboarding and some of our standards better than someone who's been here a long time and our standards have changed and maybe haven't like upgraded with it.
So, I always think a second pair of eyes is good, even if the code is really complicated. Like, it kind of helps us understand if it's annotated well and it's like the variable names are intuitive. Like, just a second pair of eyes always helps.
And then you can pass it off if you get stuck. If there's really a section you're like, I'm not sure, let me pass it off to someone who I think is going to know, like, now they're using some per functions and maybe there's only a small group of folks that on our team who are comfortable with per.
So, it's like, all right, well, maybe I'll pass that section off to them. And then, again, keeping the code review small. So, the pull request can be large, but the request for code review should be, like, smaller sections so that it's easier to review.
So, those are just some of the suggestions I had from my team.
Thanks, Jake. That's awesome.
Thanks, Jake. I'd love to ask a question that might shift gears a little bit. But, I mean, I realized just talking to everybody the past few months that hiring is extremely hard right now.
And I know we talked a little bit about this too, but building up the, not only the culture, but the way that people externally who don't understand your company see that data science environment and, like, get excited by it.
And I'm just wondering if you're not, like, one of the, like, top tech firms, like, how do you do that to get people excited about potential opportunities?
Rachel, that is such an awesome question. And I can imagine I'm not the only person struggling or challenged by that, right?
Like, we thankfully live in an awesome sector and time, right? Like, for us as individuals, you know, we've got a bit of that golden ticket.
But for, like, building organizations, it's challenging, right?
We know of, as you said, those big tech firms, the thought, the stuff that goes through it. And then location has a thing, right? Like, Canada being in the shadow of the United States.
Like, there's a little bit of that too, right? Like, the poll.
When I joined Greenshield, I only knew about them because we had healthcare coverage through them before. So I was aware of some of the stuff that they were doing.
So some of those other industries, similarly to us, is really lower down.
And the pre-notions and preconceptions of what that means, like insurance or banking or retail, like some of those other sectors that, you know, you don't think of startup or Silicon Valley or, like, those kinds of pieces, it's a challenge.
So how do we do it? How have I done it? What are some approaches that we're thinking of?
LinkedIn, first off, be shameless.
LinkedIn, get as many people as possible.
I think being a bit edgy and fun, knowing your audience is a bit different rather than we currently have an opportunity.
No, like, people have so much limited time in their day.
They want to know what you're really going to be like.
Like, what's it going to be like? That's where we're at today, right?
There's a plethora of opportunities.
So what are some of the things that people are really interested in?
What are the problems that you're working on?
Like, that's really interesting.
A lot of people like to know the tech stack.
Like, hey, like, am I going to be working on something I'm comfortable with, I'm no longer interested in, or, ooh, that's new, I want to be involved in it.
So those are some of the pieces that we've used as an approach.
I think being honest and open is like, hey, we're trying to build stuff, and you're going to have a chance to shape it and, like, organize it and, like, put your thumbprint or your flavor on it.
So those are some really fun catch pieces to do just for your traditional kind of, like, social media, like, networking parts.
Where we're going, and I know you and I know where I'm going with what I'm about to say.
Where we're going is actually making a concerted effort to advertise, and advertise in the sense of giving back to the community.
So putting out our own analytical blog posts or putting things out on our pubs, putting out media pieces more regularly to show, like, we're doing some fun stuff.
Yeah, we are not Google, and we don't profess or claim to be, but there's only a couple of those types of places in the world, right?
So this is the kind of things that we're looking at and putting that out more regularly and contributing to open source so that people can kind of see ahead of time, and then it pops up on their radar.
Some of the other things that other organizations, in my days in municipal government, go there is changing the titles so that they just pop up on people's searches, right?
Like, those are some pieces, like, yeah, you may want to use them that way and you bake it in, but people don't necessarily read all the requirements from a search pattern.
So those would be some pieces, Rachel, if we want to touch and go further, I would be more than happy.
That's super helpful. I can't wait to also share that snippet with people, too.
I'm curious from everyone else on the call, too, if there's other things that have worked for you or even specific challenges that you're facing right now with hiring.
I'm not hiring, but as someone that's looking to get into, we briefly talked about it in the chat last time, I'm 22.
I'm looking to get into the data science sector, and therefore I look at all these jobs, especially on LinkedIn, where I go, I'm going to be stereotypical about myself.
I'm white. I'm privileged. I went to a very good school.
And therefore I see these job applications and posts and I go, I don't care, I'm going to apply anyway. What's the worst that they're going to say no?
Or don't even respond, probably isn't the worst either.
So I just apply anyway, but it's found that, and studies have shown that, that hinders a lot of people, especially minorities and people coming from less fortunate backgrounds and applying.
Do you think generally HR's lack of knowledge about data science sector hinders hiring too much?
And how do you think that could be a solution to that?
Yeah.
I could go into this for hours. My sister's in HR, so we talk about this all the time.
Generally, when I join an organization, some of the first people I try to make best friends with are the HR people.
That's just my approach, because if you want to get stuff done, they need to be your best friends.
They don't know, and they're under the gun for so many different things.
Hiring is only generally one element of the plethora of HR stuff that goes on.
So I would say, yeah, they're not sure. They're aware of it.
They are very aware of the organization.
They know the story of the sector, how challenging it is.
What I've done for them is, you know what, I'm going to take some of those costs off for you.
Send me all of them.
I don't care if there's 500 applicants.
Send me every single one of them.
I will screen with you, and I'll give you my first view, and we'll put some stuff over, and we'll look at it that way.
Because reading between the lines is sometimes challenging.
And then also, yeah, they can literally see a language or keyword searches, but within context, it may mean nothing.
Or if it's like, hey, I did a Udemy course for three hours in this, that doesn't mean you're free to do it.
So there's some of those pieces.
So I would say they're critically challenged.
How I've gone about it is I've taken the costs on to do the recruiting myself.
I've also, oh, I hope they're not listening, not necessarily followed some of the requirements that I'm supposed to, i.e. education.
I personally don't care how you got there because it would be very hypocritical of myself.
I didn't follow that path.
I think we live in a world where there isn't a defined path, and people can get there lots of different ways.
So there's a lot of other pieces that we do to screen people in and look at it.
One of my favorite teams that I've ever worked on was at the City of Open Data.
And for those of you who haven't watched Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer, the 1960 stop motion one, watch it afterwards because this comment I'm about to say will make more sense.
We were the island of misfit toys.
We were nowhere close to your stereotypical superstar team, but boy, oh, boy, did we get a lot of stuff done.
And typical HR people wouldn't be able to find those meshes and nuances of how the jigsaw puzzle of success would go together.
So I think sharing some of those costs as in, like, work and screening really behooves us as people who are building teams to work with HR that way.
How would we get there?
I think it goes back a bit of your question earlier, Zach, because a tech person who wants to make a career change and go into that field and bring that domain knowledge in,
but HR is somewhat, like us, has some rigid requirements to be able to get in because there's apps and laws and other pieces.
I think it's going to be a challenge for us for a decade more.
Thank you very much.
No problem.
I see a lot of great comments in the chat right now.
And Sep, I see you just raised your hand if you want to jump in first.
Yeah, if you don't mind, I was just going to kind of add on to that.
There's a whole spectrum of companies, Zach, and for other people.
And it kind of depends on your bandwidth, too.
Like, I think at prior companies, I didn't really have the bandwidth to go through all the applications primarily because the company is so large, right?
When it's, like, 10,000-plus employees, they have very kind of strict ways of how they handle applications and things of that nature.
And it was actually quite a struggle because as much as I would try to explain to the recruiter to filter these things,
there was always a computer that's always in front that allows some of these applications to get through because people are just throwing in a bunch of keywords.
And the recruiter then sees it and then passes it along to you.
And I'm like, this doesn't mean anything to me.
I can't do anything with this.
So, you know, my recommendation, especially if you're trying to break into the area, is be very specific about what it is that you want to do,
what area you want to work in, and reach out to those people that you find interesting on LinkedIn or whatnot.
And just send them a message asking just to chat with them because a lot of times you find that there may be a match in personality or in education,
and then that allows you to kind of circumvent this kind of somewhat broken process with larger companies.
So that was just one of the kind of put those two cents out there.
That's awesome.
And then just to add on to that, if there's not a fit with the person you reach out to, generally they have a network,
and we always try to help each other out so we'll point people in other directions as well.
So I think it's always a great concept to just reach out.
Yeah.
Oh, definitely.
Thank you.
I'm going to chime in and pile on to everything Sep said, especially at larger companies.
Like a good strategy is hit me up on LinkedIn.
Our recruiting process isn't always as robust as you might think it is.
Yep.
Mike, I see you had a great point in the chat as well, if you'd like to jump in and add that.
Hi.
I'm starting to think about this kind of process as well.
And at my company we had talked about the potential for growing data scientists.
So bringing in people who kind of demonstrate the right kind of enthusiasm, the right kind of data focus and analytical thinking,
maybe not necessarily the tech skills.
And almost doing an apprenticeship and saying, you know, we realize that you don't know everything yet.
That's cool.
But we'll show you how.
And, you know, after a period, if you realize that it's not for you, that's great.
We'll send you on your way with a pat on the back.
But if you find that you love it, then great.
Carry on.
And I wonder whether that's a more sustainable model than, you know, continuing to hunt for the unicorns.
Yeah.
I promise I'll be quick.
I'll add and then let others too.
I think that's how we're going to see stuff going.
And we're looking at doing that very similarly at Greenshield ourselves.
Do a little company plug.
But we're doing transformations.
And you're seeing that.
And we saw it in other places, this operational model, like operating model.
And I know not all organizations do that.
But the hub and spoke.
You may have your core place that is the core.
But now starting to put people in other organizations that are data focused.
Places know that we need to do this.
We need to transition.
Right?
So putting that in there and having a strong educational kind of mentorship piece, I think, is how we will grow it.
And just being really realistic on we're not trying to grow unicorns.
We're trying to grow people that can solve problems that are valuable to our business.
I think it's like if we know going into that, you're not going to count a unicorn.
We don't expect you to be that.
Then I think that model is going to work superb.
And Ryan, I'd love to just also have you share the roles that you're hiring for too.
And I realize there was a question that I missed earlier.
If all the roles would be for people in Canada or.
So we have a hybrid working model.
I think we're Canadian only focus.
I'd have to check.
And I'm not sure if that has to do with, like, taxation kind of purposes.
I'm not sure.
We're a Canadian company, but we definitely have American clients.
Like, I know that.
So I would say apply anyways.
Like, if you're interested, we currently have two of our data engineering piece.
What does that mean?
It's like your data pipelines, building access points, APIs.
They'll always be working with, like, analytical kind of pieces,
but really shaping up and building that kind of that whole practice.
Because it's missing in a lot of organizations.
So we're focusing there.
We have more that will be coming up soon in that true data science.
And this is where that split is.
So for those of you who love that word and think that's you,
we won't be asking you to do data planning.
That's the data engineering.
You're going to be focusing on doing analytics and building models.
And then where we're going to be looking into the new year a little bit more
is, like, that more machine learning engineer.
So you as a data scientist can take it to a certain level
and then hand it off to, like, a machine learning engineering person
to harden it up.
So we're really trying to build things kind of, I don't want to say siloed,
but more focused onto, like, your skill sets and your interests
and putting it there.
And then also I'm a firm believer of putting in more starting out roles,
like in that analyst level, so people can grow up.
And I'm trying to start pushing into, like, that data storyteller,
data journalist, product analyst that's doing the communication
and starting to put that in there instead of our typical BA, business analyst.
So those are some of the things that we're doing.
We have a really big initiative for analytics in 2022 to 2025,
so keep your eyes on us.
You'll see a lot.
And if you follow me on LinkedIn, I'm going to bug you
because you're going to see a lot of stuff coming out.
Awesome.
Thank you so much, Ryan.
And I know a few people have to drop because we just went over the hour mark.
So I do want to say thank you so much to everybody for being a part of this
community and building the Data Science Hangout this year.
This has really turned into my favorite part of the week,
being able to hang out with you all.
So thank you.
And wishing everybody happy holiday and a happy new year.
Looking forward to seeing you all back on January 6th.
I definitely want to stay on and ask a few other questions,
if you have a few more minutes, Ryan.
Yeah, I totally do.
I actually am on a day off, so I've got hours.
Thank you for joining us on your day off.
Yeah, no, I've been looking forward to this for a long time.
Awesome.
Well, also, I shared a feedback form as well in the chat,
if anyone wants to take a look at that and give feedback
or suggestions for next year, as well as our speaker lineup.
But, Peter, I saw you also put a great question in the chat when we were
talking about hiring, around hiring in the public sector.
Would you want to jump in there?
And, Peter, I can read it.
And if you want to just add more context, feel free to jump in, too.
But the question was, one issue we have in the public sector is recruiting
when our hiring process is so slow, it makes us less competitive
and drawing in people actively seeking a position.
Just interested in any thoughts on that.
Oh, my gosh, Peter.
That was five years for me at the City of Toronto.
Like, creating a role took two years.
So, like, I get it.
And, like, people told me, you got a job filled in six months?
How were you able to do that so fast?
And I was able to start doing it in three.
And they're like, how does it work?
Like, how are you doing that?
And not to say that we did it all the time.
I had many jobs that went to, like, three rounds.
Like, it's extremely slow.
So, how do we do the competitiveness?
One thing that I will put out there, I was lucky.
City of Toronto is a big name, right?
Like, we are a target.
We have a brand associated to it.
So, that did help us.
Like, I will say that that was a positive thing that helped us.
Early on, it was hard.
It was extremely hard.
And what I learned where we started to get more qualified applicants,
if you want to say it that way,
more interest from people that you would not expect,
and then just more applicants, was that advertising.
Like, what you're doing, right?
So, I joined.
I joined the City of Toronto midway through my Ph.D.
and decided not to finish and went there.
And people were like, you're committing suicide.
What are you doing?
You're going to, like, a large bureaucracy.
And I'm like, I see it differently.
I see it as an opportunity to make municipal government like it was in the
60s and 70s, where they were doing the cool stuff,
where they were doing all the solving of the problems.
And I looked at it as, hey, I joined as a manager, a title.
I'm not a title person.
But I had a team of, like, 30 people.
That means I have an operating budget.
How is that any different than having a grad program?
I didn't have to recruit any grad students.
I had people there, and I had guaranteed funding.
I didn't have to write things.
So, if you take a look at it a little bit differently,
and you play within your rules, and I kind of throw the rules out,
in the municipal government, Peter,
one thing that I would say is get to know your severance package policy
really well because you'll realize that it takes them a long time to get you
out, and in the public sector, delivery trumps everything.
So, what we did is we asked for forgiveness and didn't ask for permission,
right?
So, we started to just take over social media kind of stuff and putting things
out, talking about what we specifically were doing,
what it's going to be like to come there, and then we delivered.
And we delivered quickly, and we didn't deliver perfectly.
And that has a bit of a purpose, one, because it's pragmatic.
It's impossible to deliver perfectly.
But people see things quicker, and they see things often,
and then they also start to dispel this kind of preconceived conception of,
like, bureaucracy and slow and boring and things like that.
And we started to get out and speak.
We would go to events, and it didn't have to be me.
It could be people on the team and go out.
Like, people will resonate and talk about stuff and put the word out there.
And then joining into the open source community and, like,
really pushing that on the inside and doing stuff got people to be like,
oh, government's doing some kind of cool stuff here.
Like, I'm interested in that.
And then the thing that we always have that private sector doesn't have all the
time is we're doing stuff that helps society.
And there are certain elements of people who really look for that
and really want to align themselves.
And we actually had a ton of people who were leaving the big five large
tech companies who were like, I made a lot of money,
but I didn't do a lot of good for what they were thinking.
I'm not saying that they didn't do good, but from what they were saying,
I didn't do anything that was helping what they envisioned for values in
their societal kind of lens and what's important to them.
So they wanted to transition into that.
So by making that just known in your postings and, like,
the way that you share it out there and having, like,
advertising, like, your social media presence, like,
this is what we're going to do and this is what we stand for,
that attracts people.
That allows people to be like, okay, I'm going to go make a difference,
and this is how I can see that I'm going to do it,
and these are the things that are going to do it.
I'm going to wait.
It's going to be worth it.
It's totally going to be worth it to wait, and that's okay.
The other shameless thing, Peter, and I'm already saying this now,
because I'm no longer a public employee, oh, I stalked people.
I stalked people.
My buddy, Matt Tenney, I straight-up stalked him.
And, like, we hired him,
and he was our first true data scientist at the City of Toronto.
I stalked him and stalked him and stalked him online and pulled him away
from, like, Esri Canada.
So it was something.
And another municipality.
He was looking at other things.
So if you're on there, Matt, if you hear this, ha-ha.
Remember those days back in 2017.
Those are some of the approaches that we used,
and I was okay with it because I knew how long it was going to take
and how much it was going to cost him to fire me.
So that's what I mean by the sevens package.
So, like, you have some really good trump cards that you can play
in public sector, but it's hard, really hard.
Thank you.
That's very helpful,
and I feel like we're really trying to do something very similar
and develop capacity in-house, you know, and do more with our data.
And I think we are doing some interesting things,
and we have some interesting things on the horizon.
But I've just found in, you know, many different hiring cycles,
not just for data positions,
but, like, by the time we get around to hiring somebody,
we've lost half of our interview panel because they found other positions.
I like this idea of having, you know, because three to six months,
that is kind of the window,
but that's too long for somebody who is looking for a position now.
And so I appreciate some of the strategies
that we can kind of wrap around that.
Thank you.
No problem.
The other thing that we did because we weren't able to hire because,
like, the talent was just so hard
or waiting for budget cycles to come through to create new positions,
we did something really bold.
We took an entire team who were 55 to 63 years old
and sent them to school for two months.
And straight up sent them out.
So you're going to school.
It was York University, so I'll give a plug to them.
They did a great job.
And they were in school for five days a week to re-educate them,
and they went through a whole data science program kind of piece.
It was a tough sell, but it means that I
and a few other people took on those costs of doing some of the jobs,
like organizing, working with the business to say,
we're going to be a little bit of a lull on our delivery,
but here's what you're going to get on the end.
So that might help you as a different strategy as well of tooling up
if you can't recruit, like, as a piece.
Because let's be honest,
side of your desk education is really hard at the beginning for people.
I think that's a great way to top up and improve
when you already have that confidence and those capabilities,
those tool sets in your toolbox, right?
You might have a hammer and a screwdriver,
but after a while you start needing other tools.
And that's easier when you have those bases.
I'm not sure if that's something of interest, Peter,
but we found it really helpful.
And boy, were those individuals super grateful.
And they went from low performers to high performers overnight.
And it sparked other people in the team and the organization,
like, I want to do that too.
And it just starts to change the culture of, like, what's acceptable.
Because output sells.
Mubanga, I see you have your hand raised as well.
I'd love to turn it over to you.
Thanks, Rachel.
I just have a quick question on RAM.
What O'Reilly book is there on your shelf?
What's O'Reilly?
So do you want to go chronologically, alphabetical, or just off the top?
I was interested in the one that was on the far right, the white O'Reilly book.
This one?
Yes.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, that's my most recent read.
This is how it all began.
This is what I used in grad school.
So if you're a qualitative geographer, this was really helpful.
I'll be honest, this one was over my head a lot.
And then ggplot, I still have to look up the syntax.
I read this one on the TTC on the subway.
It was just, like, a long commute.
Awesome book.
This is really well done.
Super helpful because this is, like, where I'm starting to progress now
is to improve access for people so they don't need to know everything.
They can just access through a package.
And then for my geo friends, it doesn't get any better than this.
Thank you, Ryan.
You're reminding me that we talked about maybe having a book club at some point.
One other question that I see that we have remaining,
and if there's any others that I maybe missed in the chat, please jump in.
Bruno, I see you had a great question.
Well, I won't summarize.
I'll turn it over to you.
All right.
Ryan, I really like the way you speak, how you interpret the business word.
How did you develop such interesting views around business and people interaction?
Do you have mentors?
Was it trial and error?
Believe it or not, I don't take compliments very well,
so that's really flattering and hard for me to, like, digest.
So thank you so much, Bruno.
If I reflect back, trial and tribulation,
I don't have, like, your normal progressional path through things.
I moved around a whole bunch, like, my whole life.
I literally have moved 50 times in my life.
So it's been forcing me to have to speak.
So I think early on, if I think about it, that really did it.
Another thing for me, I had an early on job where I gave gondola tours.
And I was stuck in a gondola with 50 people and had to talk to them.
And a lot of times a gondola would get stuck over a river,
and we could be there for 20 minutes.
So it would really force you to talk.
I would say what truly helped me transition into the speaking is my love of movies
and trying to break things down into a movie.
It's very visual, but movies tell a story.
And people love stories.
So if you can kind of remove the jargon for a bit,
and I do pick that word because a lot of business leaders think, like,
oh, here we go, jargon.
They're coming in with jargon again.
It's to remove that and be vulnerable and allow people to be part of your story
and reward them.
So telling them and bringing them involved and helping them be part of it.
So I think following the script of, like, some of your favorite movies
or just, like, how I've done it.
It's like, let's be animated.
I don't mind being silly.
Hence, what I'm wearing is what I'm wearing.
Like, I have no problem with it.
Through my progression is if we keep going, some of the pieces that go along
is truly being vulnerable.
And then my wife, she's my sounding board.
Prior to that, I had a great friend that I worked with, Mike, at Sanborn,
and we were doing Geo stuff, and we were building products.
And he's like, I'm a designer.
I draw.
So I would use him as a sounding board.
If Mike didn't get it, no one would.
So, like, having those kinds of pieces.
So using my wife, like, does this make sense?
Like, she's a teacher, and she teaches elementary school students,
so nothing in this space.
So she's like, yeah, I get it.
Is this what it is?
I'm like, okay.
Changing the approach, and then I went into, like, analogies.
So I think having kind of a dynamic kind of way about stuff
and trying to understand your audience and somewhat into groups
and what is really important for them.
So some people have true importance on just pure profit.
Like, okay, I'm going to use profit kind of directions of my story.
Some people are about, like, no, no, no, how's the culture and the feel?
So you kind of mitigate and you swing around.
A friend of mine told me, and I took offense to it right away,
and then I was like, oh, wait, no, that's not offensive.
You're a chameleon, right?
And it's funny that I bring that up.
My son was asking me, what's a chameleon?
I'm like, oh, how do I explain that to a 4-year-old?
It's a lizard that changes color within their environment.
They adapt.
And I think that's kind of a bit of the essence is adapting to your environment
and understanding what people value and appreciate.
And if you can somewhat get there on a common level ground,
people appreciate that because there are people who want that hardcore tech
and they were like, every time you speak it, you better be giving me your resume.
Like, there are those individuals there,
and they're always going to be at that level.
And then there's the far other end of the spectrum of people.
It's like, I'm too afraid to kind of like ask anything.
That's just not who they are.
People are somewhere in the middle, and most people, you know, nerd,
normal distribution, most people are somewhere in the middle.
We get off-put, right?
It's like, are you seriously resuming me right now?
Like, is that how we're doing this conversation?
So kind of breaking it down so that people can feel like they have something
to contribute and like, oh, I'm a little bit higher than that.
Like, yes, great, and they're giving.
I think doing that and not feeling like – I'm not saying you are.
Just one of the things that I kind of try to do, and I don't do it well all the time,
is letting people give more than what you are.
You facilitate kind of the dialogue and let people feel like they're giving.
I try to measure success on literally finishing, like delivering.
So my wife and I are a little bit different.
I like the destination more so than the journey.
So if it means changing around and having people contribute, that's cool.
That's the journey.
That's great for me.
I love people doing that piece as long as the destination is kind of successful.
So that's kind of a bit of my mantra.
I care less about how we get there.
But to summarize, being goofy, like if you're okay with being goofy, laughing a whole bunch,
trying to tell a story and breaking it down into like kind of analogies
and understanding your target audience is what I did.
Mentorship, no, I'm still – I had a great person, like one individual,
but really my mentors have been movies.
I just love movies.
So just using like, hey, one of the things I helped out with a friend,
she was really scared for an interview.
I'm like, one of the ones that I use all the time.
So here's a movie plug of my approach is 8 Mile with Eminem.
So for those of you who have watched it, you're going to know what I'm about to say.
For those of you who don't, fast forward all the way to the last half an hour of the movie.
I try to do everything like Mom's Spaghetti, the last rap battle.
I take away all their ammunition and just kind of like put it out there at the beginning.
So what I do, right, is you just try to own it and, hey, yeah, you're right,
I don't know anything, but can we talk about what we need to do instead?
So you just remove all the barriers at the beginning and just totally be funny about it.
And if people aren't laughing, it's like, great, now I know I don't want to work with you.
I love that you referenced 8 Mile.
I said in the chat, when we make – so we are making this data science hangout site
where you can see all the recordings and resources.
So I might have to add that to the recommendation.
I think that's actually a great point, that rhymes.
And it's really bad that I forgot to speak from last week's name.
But it's about understanding that we're not perfect.
And it's going, yes, I know I can't do this now.
But you give me the time.
I'm dedicated enough to learn this, and I will get there.
And I think that's one of the biggest skills, that showing that you're vulnerable,
showing you're not perfect.
And it comes across, like Ryan's not deliberately doing this,
but he's saying that he doesn't know everything.
You can hear my dogs.
Oh, no, I love dogs.
But yeah, it's that vulnerability and knowing that you're not perfect.
And that's came across a lot.
Thanks.
To be openly honest, I have a severe case of inferiority complex.
Like in this space, like absolutely huge because of my history,
like how I got here.
And I think owning it is like really helpful because then no one can use it against you.
Like, yeah, you're right.
I came from rec.
I'm better at leading you on a canoe trip than I am at writing APIs.
Like I'm totally better at that, but I can also do that too.
So do we want to talk about how we can like solve our problems for our customers
or our business or our society or like just like is that really important?
If you want to talk about it, like I'll totally talk about it with you.
Like you said, Zach, like owning that.
Like it's really, I think it's what we should be doing just societally,
but like I don't think this is our studio philosophical soapbox session.
No.
I love that though.
That's so helpful for me too.
And also we still would love to go on a canoe trip with you all.
Oh, yeah.
Hang out.
We'll all go to Canada.
Yeah.
Yeah, come on.
I'd love to take you on a wilderness canoe trip.
It's awesome.
I know we're quite a bit over too, but I love this conversation here.
And I unfortunately have to go get ready for another meeting,
but thank you all so much for jumping in here at the end too
and all this conversation is awesome.
Bruno, I see you're raising your hand,
so I want to make sure that I didn't miss something you were about to say.
Oh, you're waving.
Okay.
Yeah, these have been really good.
Really appreciate it.
As I said, I'm probably the youngest person, most inexperienced,
but I'm learning so much every single time.
And, yeah, learn from others is one of the best things.
You're not a bug.
You're a feature.
Yeah.
Everything you have is value.
I don't think of it that way.
Thank you so much, Ryan, again.
Well, Rachel, I appreciate it.
Yeah, thanks.
Thanks for providing and allowing me to have this opportunity.
It's been awesome.
I really think this is awesome.
I was nervous.
I totally had butterflies.
You guys are an amazing community, so thank you.
I hope it's been okay.
For those of you who would like to continue, I'd love to chat, as you can tell.
I will talk all day long,
so I look forward to hopefully continuing this relationship with you all in the future.
Yeah, this is great, Ryan, and that's a question I forgot to ask you.
What is the best way to connect with you?
Is it LinkedIn?
Yeah, I'm a LinkedIn, Twitter kind of person.
I think I'm a little bit too old for Snapchat.
I think they have an age barrier where they just, like, kick you off if you sign up.
Hey, I'm not on Snapchat either.
Yeah, I know that I get addicted to videos, so I'm staying away from TikTok.
But, yeah, like LinkedIn and Twitter are me.
I'm pretty simple.
I'm Ryan Garnett, 78.
If you want to choose what that number 78 means, please be friendly, and that's who I am.
Awesome.
Thank you so much, Ryan.
Have a great rest of the day, everyone, and happy holidays, happy new year.
Looking forward to seeing you in 2022.
Thank you.